(Download the call as a `.pdf` <a href="/documents/berlinWorkshopCall.pdf" class="link dim">here</a>.

Since the earliest days of generative linguistics, the mechanism of
*selection* has been the subject of intense scrutiny.
@grimshaw_complement_1979 famously argued that lexical items may impose
both *c(ategory)*- and *s(emantic)-*selection; logically independent
properties. Subsequent work by @pesetsky_paths_1982 argued that many of
@grimshaw_complement_1979’s observations framed as arguments for
c-selection can instead be analyzed in terms of abstract case, thus
raising the possibility of factoring c-selection out of the grammar
completely. This pioneering work on selection has framed subsequent
research in two ways. First, a debate ensued regarding whether it is
possible to simplify @grimshaw_complement_1979’s system, by explaining
selectional requirements in terms of other factors
[@pesetsky91; @pesetsky93; @rothstein92; @odijk97]. Second, these
selectional requirements were used as a starting point for research into
a range of empricial phenomena related to clausal embedding
[@adger_syntax_2001; @moltmann04; @moulton_natural_2009; @kastner2015].

Recently developed resources may help shed new light on these questions.
The current workshop will coincide with the launch of the *ZAS Database
of Clause Embedding Predicates*[^1] an online database of predicates and
the arguments they embed, which can be queried according to a variety of
criteria (@zasdb). Other resources, such as the *MegaAttitude*
dataset[^2], can similarly inform large-scale computational
investigations [@whiterawlins16; @megaAttitude2016].

The workshop aims to bring together researchers working on the
selectional properties of predicates in an attempt to bring together the
two lines of research mentioned above, as well as the specific topics
below. We welcome theoretical, experimental, computational and
typological work that bears on the selectional properties of predicates
and the elements they embed. A non-exhaustive list of topics includes
the following:

-   Division of labour between semantic and syntactic selectional
    mechanisms [@grimshaw_complement_1979].
    
-   Question embedding and polarity
    [@adger_syntax_2001; @eckhardt2007; @schwabefittler09; @mayr2017].
    
-   Factivity and selection [@kiparsky_fact_1970; @kastner2015].

-   Embedding and aspect [@todorovic15; @lekakouquer16].

-   The semantics of declarative vs.interrogative clausal embedding
    [@lahiri_questions_2002; @theiler2014; @uegaki_interpreting_2015; @theileretalSubmitted].

-   Re-examination of @pesetsky_paths_1982’s ([-@pesetsky_paths_1982])
    elimination of c-selection in light of challenges to traditional
    Case theory
    [@marantz:1991short; @mcfadden:dissshort; @baker:casepp].

-   How selection interacts with case, control, finiteness and embedded
    clause-size
    [@sundaresanmcfadden:jsal; @stiebels:2010; @wurmbrand:2014].

-   The correlation between embedding predicate and type of embedded
    complement [@takahashi10; @moltmann_abstract_2013].

-   Formalizations of selection and their theoretical or empirical
    consequences [@Adger; @bruening13; @collinsstabler16].

-   Which elements impose selectional restrictions
    [@harley14thlia; @merchant16bls].

-   Computational modeling [@whiterawlins16] and computational resources
    [@megaAttitude2016; @zasdb].

-   Event structure and selection [@grano_sub20; @rawlinsWhite2017].

### References

[^1]: <http://www.owid.de/plus/zasembed2017/>

[^2]: <http://decomp.net/megaattitude>
